---
layout: post
title: "Music Post: The Crappy Chrono Trigger Project"
status: publish
type: post
published: true
---

Earlier this year, I started what I dubbed the _Crappy Chrono Trigger Project_. Essentially, in an attempt to stretch my musical chops, I wanted to cover a bunch of themes from the classic SNES RPG, Chrono Trigger. I didn't end up getting terribly far in (as it turns out, they're basically all in A minor, and didn't provide too terribly much variety) but I did get a few tracks down, and made some progress learning my tools in the process.

I'm a bassist at heart - I've been playing the bass for nearly 20 years now (wow). A couple of years ago, I picked up an electric guitar, and just recently I picked up an acoustic guitar as well, with the idea that maybe if they're in my office I'll learn them by osmosis or something. And as with most musicians, I can doodle around on a keyboard decently enough, though clearly not to the level of profiency of an actual pianist.

I record and mix in [Reaper](http://www.reaper.fm/), with my Warwick Corvette V bass (my only _actually_ decent instrument) and an el cheapo Casio keyboard, Squier Telecaster, and Fender acoustic. Drums are all sequenced in Reaper with pre-fab templates because I have no clue how to sequence drums. But hey, that's why we do these things, right?

After a few months, I don't completely hate a few of the tracks that came out. These were done with the explicit intent that they don't have to be perfect - I published them to keep myself honest. And hey, listening to them makes me want to go back and pick it up and continue to get better.

Magus' theme is one of my favorites from the games, and there are _so_ many cool renditions of it that this one is really paltry. But it's probably the technical best of the bunch.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/256341616&amp;color=0066cc&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=true&amp;show_reposts=false"></iframe>

Ayla's theme, aka "Power Chords: The Song":

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/253979060&amp;color=ff5500&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=true&amp;show_reposts=false"></iframe>

Schala's Theme/Undersea Palace. These two themes have so many common elements (by design) that they sort of bleed together in my head. I just rolled with it and merged the two.

<iframe width="100%" height="166" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/253965336&amp;color=ff5500&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=true&amp;show_reposts=false"></iframe>

I'm feeling the itch again to pick it back up and knock a few more out. I've reached the point as a musician that I recognize how little I know and how far I have to go, but there's never been a better time to be a self-taught musician. The resources available (heck, just the free lessons from professionals available on YouTube) are utterly staggering. Time to dive back in.
